\input texinfo.tex
@c %**start of header
@setfilename mmck-fectors.info
@settitle @sc{mmck} Fectors
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi
@include macros.texi

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Values.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@set TITLE                      Fectors for @sc{chicken}

@c To be used as @value{PACKAGE} whenever we need to include the full
@c name of this package.
@set PACKAGE                    @sc{mmck} Fectors

@c To be used as @value{PACKAGE} whenever we need to include the
@c nickname of the project: the name that is used to compose the
@c distribution tarball or the web address.
@set PACKAGE_NICKNAME           mmck-fectors

@c To be used as @value{AUTHOR} whenever we need to include the list of
@c authors of this document.
@set AUTHOR                     Marco Maggi

@c To be used as @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL} whenever we need to include the
@c email of the *single* author of this document.
@set AUTHOR_EMAIL               @email{mrc.mgg@@gmail.com}

@c To be used as @value{COPYRIGHT_YEARS} whenever we need to include the
@c list of copyright years.
@set COPYRIGHT_YEARS            2012, 2019

@set CHICKEN_VERSION            5.1.0

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@set PackageStem                fectors

@set PackageAutoconfPrefix      MMCK_FECTORS
@set PackagePkgconfigModule     mmck-fectors

@set GithubUrl                  @url{https://github.com/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}}
@set BitbucketUrl               @url{https://bitbucket.org/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}}
@set DownloadUrl                @url{https://bitbucket.org/marcomaggi/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}/downloads}
@set DocumentationUrl           @url{https://marcomaggi.github.io/docs/@value{PACKAGE_NICKNAME}.html}

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Local macros.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@macro mmck{}
@sc{mmck}
@end macro

@macro chicken{}
@sc{chicken}
@end macro

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Copyright notice.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@copying
This document describes version @value{VERSION} of @value{PACKAGE}, a @chicken{} language library
implementing functional vectors.  @chicken{} is a Scheme--to--C compiler supporting the language
features as defined in the ``Revised^5 Report on Scheme''.

The package supports @posix{} platforms.  This package should work with @chicken{} version 5+; it
has been tested with @chicken{} version @value{CHICKEN_VERSION}.  The code depends on the @chicken{}
egg @code{coops}.  To run the tests: this package depends upon the package @mmck{} Checks.

The latest release can be downloaded from:

@center @value{DownloadUrl}

@noindent
development takes place at:

@center @value{GithubUrl}

@noindent
and as backup at:

@center @value{BitbucketUrl}

@noindent
Copyright @copyright{} @value{COPYRIGHT_YEARS} by @value{AUTHOR} @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL}@*
Copyright @copyright{} 2012 Ian Price @email{ianprice90@@googlemail.com}

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the @gnu{}
Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation; with Invariant Sections being ``@gnu{} Free Documentation License'' and ``@gnu{} Lesser
General Public License'', no Front--Cover Texts, and no Back--Cover Texts.  A copy of the license is
included in the section entitled ``@gnu{} Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Headers.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@titlepage
@title @value{TITLE}
@subtitle Revision @value{VERSION}
@author @value{AUTHOR} @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@ifinfo
@dircategory Development
@direntry
* mmck-fectors: (mmck-fectors).   Functional vectors for @chicken{}.
@end direntry
@end ifinfo

@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@ignore
@syncodeindex tp cp
@syncodeindex vr cp
@syncodeindex fn cp
@end ignore

@c page
@ifnottex
@node Top
@top @value{TITLE}

@insertcopying

@menu
* overview::                    Overview of the package.
* version::                     Version functions.
* fectors::                     Functional vectors.

Appendices

* Package License::             Package License.
* Documentation License::       GNU Free Documentation License.
* references::                  Bibliography and references.

Indexes

* concept index::               An entry for each concept.
* function index::              An entry for each function.
* variable index::              An entry for each variable.
* type index::                  An entry for each type.
@end menu
@end ifnottex

@c page
@node overview
@chapter Overview of the package


@cindex @library{mmck fectors}, library
@cindex Library @library{mmck fectors}


This document describes version @value{VERSION} of @value{PACKAGE}, a @chicken{} language library
implementing a functional vectors.  @chicken{} is a Scheme-to-C compiler supporting the language
features as defined in the ``Revised^5 Report on Scheme''.

This package supports @posix{} platforms.  The code depends on the extension @code{coops}.  To run
the tests: this package depends upon the package @mmck{} Checks.

Functional programming needs functional data structures.  This is an implementation of ``vectors''
(also called arrays), a finite map keyed by consecutive integers between @math{0} and @math{n-1},
@math{n} being the length of the vector.  Being functional, the structure is not observably mutable,
and so access to any version will always give the correct answer.

There are many possible implementations of the vector interface with different efficiency
characteristics, the one contained prioritises ``single threaded'' use of vectors, that is, one in
which access is most frequently to the last created version of the vector.  Access to previously
stored versions works correctly, though it will not be quite as efficient.

The original code base is the @code{fectors} project by Ian Price; it was ported first to Vicare
Scheme by Marco Maggi; then ported to CHICKEN by Marco Maggi.

The package installs the library @library{mmck fectors} along with its import library.  To require
the library and import its syntactic bindings in a module we can do:

@example
(declare (unit my-module)
         (emit-import-library my-module))

(require-library (mmck fectors))

(module (my-module)
    ()
  (import (scheme)
    (mmck fectors))

  ...

  #| end of module |# )
@end example

@c page
@node version
@chapter Version functions


@value{PACKAGE}'s version number follows the specification of @dfn{Semantic Versioning} version 2.0
as outlined at:

@center @url{https://semver.org/}

@noindent
the following functions are available to inspect the version specification at runtime.


@defun mmck-@value{PackageStem}-package-major-version
Return a fixnum representing the package's major version number.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the major version number is the fixnum @samp{1}.
@end defun


@defun mmck-@value{PackageStem}-package-minor-version
Return a fixnum representing the package's minor version number.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the minor version number is the fixnum @samp{2}.
@end defun


@defun mmck-@value{PackageStem}-package-patch-level
Return a fixnum representing the package's patch level number.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the patch level number is the fixnum @samp{3}.
@end defun


@defun mmck-@value{PackageStem}-package-prerelease-tag
Return a string representing the package's prerelease tag.  As example, if the full semantic version
is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the prerelease tag is the string @samp{"devel.0"}.  This string may
be empty.
@end defun


@defun mmck-@value{PackageStem}-package-build-metadata
Return a string representing the package's build metadata.  As example, if the full semantic version
is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the build metadata is the string @samp{"x86-64"}.  This string may
be empty.  We need to remember that this specification segment must contain only @ascii{}
alphanumerics and hyphen @samp{[0-9A-Za-z-]}; underscores are @strong{not} allowed.
@end defun


@defun mmck-@value{PackageStem}-package-version
Return a string representing the package's version.  As example, if the full semantic version is
@samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the package version is the string @samp{"1.2.3-devel.0"}, without the
build metadata.
@end defun


@defun mmck-@value{PackageStem}-package-semantic-version
Return a string representing the package's semantic version.  As example, if the full semantic
version is @samp{1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64}: the package version is the string
@samp{"v1.2.3-devel.0+x86-64"}, notice the leading character @samp{v}.
@end defun

@c page
@node fectors
@chapter Functional vectors


@cindex Library @library{mmck fectors}
@cindex @library{mmck fectors}, library


The following syntactic bindings are exported by the library @library{mmck fectors}.


@defun make-fector @var{size}
@defunx make-fector @var{size} @var{fill}
Return a fector of the specified @var{size}, which must be a non--negative integer.  If the
@var{fill} parameter is given, the locations of the fector are initialised to that object, otherwise
their initial values are unspecified.
@end defun


@defun fector @var{obj} @dots{}
Return a fector whose initial values are given as arguments.
@end defun


@defun fector? @var{obj}
Return @true{} if a given object is a fector, @false{} otherwise.
@end defun


@defun fector-length @var{fector}
Return a non--negative integer representing the number of items that are stored in @var{fector}.
@end defun


@defun build-fector @var{size} @var{index->obj}
Return a new fector of the given @var{size}, a non--negative integer, where each item is initialised
to the value of the given function @var{index->obj} applied to its index.
@end defun


@defun fector-ref @var{fector} @var{index}
Return the item associated with the given @var{index} in @var{fector}.  If @var{index} is outside
the range:

@example
0 <= @var{index} < (fector-length @var{fector})
@end example

@noindent
then an error is raised.
@end defun


@defun fector-set @var{fector} @var{index} @var{item}
Return a new fector equivalent to @var{fector} except the given @var{index} which is associated to
@var{item}.  If @var{index} is outside the range:

@example
0 <= @var{index} < (fector-length @var{fector})
@end example

@noindent
then an @condition{assertion} is raised.
@end defun


@defun list->fector @var{list-of-items}
Return a fector initialised with the contents of the given list.
@end defun


@defun fector->list @var{fector}
Return a list containing the items in @var{fector}.
@end defun


@defun fector=? @vari{obj} @varii{obj}
@defunx fector=? @vari{obj} @varii{obj} @var{item=}
Compare two fectors item by item: return @true{} if they are equal, otherwise return @false{}.  For
the comparison use the function @var{item=}, which defaults to @func{eqv?}.
@end defun

@c page
@node Package License
@appendix Package License


Copyright @copyright{} @value{COPYRIGHT_YEARS} by @value{AUTHOR} @value{AUTHOR_EMAIL}@*
Copyright @copyright{} 2012 Ian Price @email{ianprice90@@googlemail.com}
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted
provided that the following conditions are met:

@enumerate
@item
Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and
the following disclaimer.

@item
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright anotice, this list of conditions
and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.

@item
The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
without specific prior written permission.
@end enumerate

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER
CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

@c page
@c ------------------------------------------------------------
@c Appendices.
@c ------------------------------------------------------------

@include fdl-1.3.texi

@c page
@node references
@appendix Bibliography and references


The documentation of @value{PACKAGE} is available online:

@center @value{DocumentationUrl}

@noindent
the latest release of this package can be downloaded from:

@center @value{DownloadUrl}

@noindent
development takes place at:

@center @value{GithubUrl}

@noindent
and as backup at:

@center @value{BitbucketUrl}

@noindent
@chicken{} can be downloaded from:

@center @url{http://www.call-cc.org/}

@noindent
the package @mmck{} Checks is available from:

@center @url{https://github.com/marcomaggi/mmck-checks/}

@noindent
the original implementation of @samp{fectors} is at:

@center @url{https://github.com/ijp/fectors}

@c page
@node concept index
@appendix An entry for each concept

@printindex cp

@node function index
@appendix An entry for each function.

@printindex fn

@node variable index
@appendix An entry for each variable.

@printindex vr

@node type index
@appendix An entry for each type.

@printindex tp

@contents
@bye

@c end of file
@c Local Variables:
@c ispell-local-dictionary: "en_GB-ise-w_accents"
@c End:
